URL: http://icentre.iiitkottayam.ac.in

AIC Incubation Centre
AIC-IIITKOTTAYAM
An Incubation Centre
of the Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam (IIITKottayam) on IoT Cloud Societal projects.
Acknowledges: AIM-NITI scheme of Government of India.
Apply for Incubation
Learn More
Prev
Next
AIC-IIITKottayam Incubation Centre
Summary
AIC-IIITKottayam is the incubation centre of Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam under AIM scheme of India.
Read more
Team Members
AIC-IIITKottayam centre is governed by leading industrialists and academicians of the globe ...
Sustainability
AIC-IIITKottayam aims at sustainability while creating an ecosystem of entrepreneurs in IoT cloud domain...
AIC-IIITKottayam - Value Proposition
Training Support
We offer training in order to gain knowledge (both practical and theoretical) for incubatee developments.
Patent support
IP support will be provided at our centre with leading mentors of AIC-IIITKottayam.
Idea Generation Support
Knowledge hub for developing products will be offered to the incubatee via. brainstorms or hackathons.
Marketing
Sales and marketing department of AIC-IIITKottayam will ensure that the product will be utilized in the society.
Reputation
Reputation for both mentors and incubates will be ensured at AIC-IIITKottayam.
Global Visibility
International and National collaborators or industrialists will be invited for wide visibility.
Success Formula of AIC-IIITKottayam
The success formula framed at AIC-IIITKottayam will include the following ingredients:
We keep our partners, including mentors, very close to our customers.
Apply Now
for recognition..
The strength of the partners will be reaped in to the centre. For instance,
IISER-TVM is a sort of knowledge park. We will include their strengths by directly connecting experts to our customers.
We expand the networking (contacts) with the support of the proposed partners for attracting a few more customers in the long run.
We inspire our partners and customers to submit a few innovative R&D projects so that the expertise level of AIC-IIITKottayam will be increased.
We periodically verify and satisfy the existing customers so that they will remain as an indirect advertisement medium of the centre.
Number of Startup
Jobs Created
Submissions
IP generated
Business Model
support contracts
/ month
Incubate space
Knowledge assistance
6 to 12 months
Training contract
/ week
Training support
1 to 4 weeks
Consultancy Contracts
Rs.10K
/ day
Onsite support
Consultancy support
Network support
Albert Einstein
Quotes
In the middle of difficulty lies opportunity
A.P.J.Abdul Kalam
Dream, Dream, Dream. Dream transforms into thoughts, and thoughts result in action
We should not give up and we should not allow the problem to defeat us.
Contact Us
Phone/Whatsapp
+91-482-2202156, +91-482-2202155, +91-9400063494, +91-9443543746
Email
incubate@iiitkottayam.ac.in,
ceo-aic@iiikottayam.ac.in
Address
Building no.340,
Karoor Valavoor.P.O.,
Kottayam, Kerala 686635.