URL: https://iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!imtechStudents

Welcome to IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Admissions Open -  e-M.Tech August 2026
Admissions Open -  PhD August 2026.
Campus Virtual Tour
SEVENTH International Conference on Innovative Trends in Information Technology, ICITIIT 2026
Youth for Democracy Summit 2026
TEDx IIIT Kottayam 2026
Annual Sports Meet Pradhva 4.0
Republic Day 2026
AXCIA – Annual Cyber Exercise
Code Kalari
7th Convocation
VIGILANCE AWARENESS WEEK 2025
Blood Donation Camp November 2025
150 Years of Vande Mataram Commemoration
SWACHHOTSAV 2025
International Workshop on Climate Resilience 2026
TTTC Workshop 2026
DRONE Workshop 2025
5-Day Workshop on Complex Network Analysis with Applications in Brain Network Science & Complex Systems (CNA–Brain 2025)
AICTE QIP PG Season 2 - Valedictory
UG Orientation 2025
INDEPENDENCE DAY 2025
Anti-Ragging day Observation 2025
MoU Signing Ceremony PM-VIKAS Scheme
4th International Conference on Speech and Language Technologies for Low-resource Languages (SPELLL 2025)
Two-Day International Conference on Computation and Humanities: Overlapping Research in Digital Spaces (CHORDS 2025)
CONGRATULATIONS
ONE NATION ONE ELECTION
Yoga DAY 2025
WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY 2025
MoU  with Well Tech : An initiative to share resources on academia led  industrial labs
MOU with CyStar IIT Madras
Republic Day 2025
Blood Donation Camp 2025
NATIONAL CONSTITUTION DAY 2024
State special branch police training
Five-Day workshop on "Data Science Essentials: Python Powered learning"
One Week FDP cum Workshop Advanced Computer Vision for Image Video and Applications
Short Term Training Program (STTP) on Rapid Prototyping using FPGA
One Week Workshop on Internet of Things for real-time applications with Implementations
3 Day UAV Workshop
ESF-IITM Workshop on Distributed Ledgers with a focus on the Hedera Hashgraph Network
SIKER 2025
One Week FDP cum Workshop on Secure Cloud, AI and Distributed Systems (SCADS'2025)
AI FORA 3rd General Partner Meeting
NATIONAL UNITY DAY 2024
Cyber Commando Training Program
Mozilla RCC Global Conclave 2024
14th International Conference on Security, Privacy and Applied Cryptographic Engineering (SPACE 2024)
International Conference on Smart ElectroNics and Communication SystEms 2024 ( ISENSE24 )
4th IEEE International Conference on Signal Processing, Informatics, Communication and Energy Systems (IEEE SPICES 2024)
Inauguration - "MiGlOo" The Open Cafeteria
Inauguration - " Varenyam " The Senate Hall
Mozilla Responsible Computing Grant
Agnisparsha Project
MOU with Amala Institute of Medical Sciences
MoU with National Ayurveda Research Institute for Panchakarma,Cheruthuruthi
MoU with IIST Thiruvananthapuram
MoU with Kerala Agricultural Univeristy
MoU with Human Resocia/Global IT Talent, Japan for Student Placements and International Internships
MoU with Rashtriya Raksha University, Gandhinagar Gujarat
ACM India Eminent Speaker Programme
Won the best paper award
Awarded prestigious Overseas Visiting Doctoral Fellowship at Purdue University
DAAD Scholarship 2024
New Open Gym -Svasthya
IIIT Kottayam @ Media
One of the highlight's of cOcOn 2023 is its innovative project of a crime scene within the metaverse, developed by Gyaan Lab(IIIT Kottayam).
Diwali @ IIIT Kottayam
Campus
Hostel
IIIT Kottayam Welcomes You
The Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam (IIIT Kottayam) was established in the year 2015 as one among the IIITs established under the administrative control of the Government of India and later declared as an “Institution of National Importance” by an Act of Parliament enacted in 2017. The initial cost for the infrastructure development was shared in the ratio of 50:35:15 among the Central Government, State Government and the industry partners namely M/s CIAL Cochin, and M/s Rolta Foundation Mumbai.  The institute is located on a picturesque lush green 53-acre campus in Pala, Kottayam, Kerala.
IIIT Kottayam imparts top-notch technological education at the undergraduate, post graduate and doctoral levels and currently occupies the leading position as a highly sought-after destination for students inclined to indulge in the intricacies of Computer Science and allied fields.  The Institute is committed to impart premium technical education in the country and the preeminent IIITK faculty are keenly focussed on facilitating the sculpting of bright minds into professionally balanced individuals, capable enough to take up challenges of nature, of the society and of the marketplace. The institute facilitates knowledge transfer while ensuring the adoption of the latest technological developments and pedagogy practices. Students are exposed to the contemporary developments in various disciplines of engineering by means of the meticulously crafted au-courant curriculum.
By adopting an entrepreneurial approach, utilizing contemporary teaching techniques, bringing major societal issues to the attention of our students, and fostering an environment of active learning, we produce graduates who are not only technically proficient but also socially conscious. Our courses are designed to prepare students to pave their own routes rather than merely following others. Our educational program aids the development of a scientific temperament and focuses on equipping students for a lifetime of learning and knowledge application in practical circumstances.
As part of providing unrivalled holistic education, the institute provides the student cohort with ample opportunities to pursue societal needs by undertaking critical problems and transforming ideas into actions for the betterment of the society. In a quest to cultivate creative and innovation skills, the institute offers platforms for co-creating technological solutions with premier academic and research institutes both within and outside the country. The institute also encourages active participation in various extracurricular activities providing a forum for students to hone their communication and interpersonal skills. Since necessity is the mother of inventions, our students have participated in every corner of need and took the chaos of early years as an opportunity to grow with self-determination and innovation.
Placement Details
* Source of Information:-As informed by IIIT Kottayam students placement committee
Innovative Initiatives of IIITK
Latest News
More
Advertisement for the Post of Project Research Scientist-I (Non-Medical) in Sponsored Project
List of provisionally selected candidates for admission test - e-M.Tech August 2026 batch (Phase I)
Shortlisted candidates of Ph.D. August 2026 for Interview
Notice inviting offers for hiring of buildings for IIIT K
Advertisement for the Post of a Junior Research Fellow in Sponsored Project(BEL-Bangalore)
Upcoming FDP/Workshop
Events
ICITIIT 2025
International Conference on Innovative Trends in Information Technology (ICITIIT25)
Yoga Day 2024
IIIT Kottayam Observes International Yoga Day
Faculty Development Programme 2024(ECE)
Faculty Development Programme 2024(CSY)
Faculty Development Programme 2024(CSE)
Faculty Development Programme 2024(CSH)
Vision
"Generating knowledge for the future" is IIIT Kottayam's motto in the fields of IT and IT-enabled research. In a short period of time, the institute has transformed into a hub for knowledge development, emphasizing ideas that address both local and global concerns. The mission of IIIT Kottayam includes the following essential elements:
Become a top-tier, research-driven organization in a variety of development and research domains.
Converting bright young academics and researchers into Technoprenuers.
Excelling in information technology, conducting cutting-edge research, and providing important resources to the business and societal sectors, all while making major contributions to India and the global community.
IIIT Kottayam is a notable example of an Indian IIIT that is developing quickly. The institute encourages instructors and students to work with businesses to realize their creative ideas. The students get knowledge of cutting-edge technology, practical coding experience, and exposure to the real world of business from a global standpoint.
Mission
To produce graduates who are competent in their profession, creative in solving real-world problems, and exhibit professional ethics with a caring attitude towards the society.
To solve local problems using global technologies and solve global problems using local technologies across disciplines.
To promote the significance of ethics and integrity in technical education further fostering the learning with respect for individual human rights and an unyielding commitment to the principles of equal opportunity, equity, and justice.
To provide academic excellence in Engineering and Technology by imparting quality as well as value-based education, and foster a collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where research capabilities could be leveraged to address the challenges of the present scenario.
To project the nation to the forefront of information technology research and development.
Meet the Faculty
Dr. Shajulin Benedict
Assistant Professor
Cloud Computing
Supercomputers
Dr. Bakkyaraj T
Lie Group Analysis of Nonlinear Differential Equations
Representation Theory and Invariant Theory
Data Science
Dr. Panchami V
Applied Cryptography
IoT Security
Blockchain Technology
Research Publication
Towards Automatic Compiler-assisted Performance and Energy Modeling for Message Passing Parallel Programs
TF Philipp Gschwandtner
Alexander Hirsch
Shajulin Benedict
Prediction Assisted Runtime Based Energy Tuning Mechanism for HPC Applications
Shajulin Bendict
Energy prediction of CUDA application instances using dynamic regression models in Computing
RS Rejitha
S Benedict
SA Alex
S Infanto
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-I
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-II
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-III
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-IV