URL: https://imtech.iiitkottayam.ac.in

Integrated MTECH@IIITK
Integrated MTECH
Working Professionals
AI & Data Science
IIIT Kottayam, an Institute of National Importance, provides an excellent opportunity for working professionals to pursue Masters of Technology in the market-demanding specializations.
Download Flyer
Curriculum
Schedule
Course
FAQs
Gallery
Scroll Down for more details
What We Offer
Integrated MTech programme (with BCA-MCA)
IIIT Kottayam
is designed for students who have completed their higher secondary education in Science with Mathematics / Diploma or equivalent qualifications as specified in the eligibility criteria. It's also tailored for working professionals seeking to advance their education. In line with the National Education Policy 2020, the programme offers a flexible curriculum and vocational integration. Admissions are conducted biannually, in February and August, through a national-level entrance exam. This innovative iM.Tech programme provides industry-relevant education with a global-standard curriculum, enabling students to stay current with the latest academic and industry advancements. Classes are conducted online on weekends by experienced faculty members. IIIT Kottayam is intended to partner with Industry to enhance the skills of their employees, HCL is one being a part of the iM.Tech programme.
Well-defined Curriculum
Curriculum is designed as per the needs of the partnered industries and international requirements and approved by the Senate. The curriculum is revised from time to time as per the technological advancement and industrial needs.
Qualified Faculty
Classes are conducted by the IIIT Kottayam faculty qualified from institute of national and international repute and are engaged in research contribution to the society. Short credit courses are also offered by Industry experts to nourish the skills and knowledge.
Flexibility
Online classes are held on weekends. The schedule is communicated in advance, allowing students to plan the courses, balancing between work and academic choices. Semester breaks are available for students with onsite jobs.
Live Online Classes
Classes, virtual lab sessions, and mid-semester exams are conducted in online mode. The pedagogy is highly interactive and incorporates expansive teaching methods and approaches suited to the needs and expectations of working professionals.
IIIT-Kottayam's Own Learning Platform (OSOC-P)
M.Tech Course
This innovative iM.Tech programme is designed to give the best industry-suited education with a creative and global-standard curriculum getting updated dynamically. This allows working professionals to improve their abilities in line with the most recent advancements in academics and industry
Admission Procedure
Eligibility Criteria
Programme Structure
The programme spans across 12 semesters (6 Years) – Semester I to Semester XII comprising of three levels – BCA level (Semester I through Semester VI), MCA level (Semester VII through Semester X) and Integrated M.Tech. Level (Semester XI through Semester XII).
Candidates admitted to the Integrated MTech. (with BCA-MCA) will have the flexibility to exit at the following levels:
Learners who have successfully completed Semester I through Semester VI and opt to exit at this level can receive a BCA degree in AI & Data Science.
Learners who have successfully completed Semester I through Semester X and opt to exit at this level can receive a BCA degree and MCA degree in AI & Data Science
Learners who have successfully completed Semester I through Semester XII can receive a BCA degree, MCA degree and Integrated M.Tech. degree in AI &Data Science.
The maximum duration for completion of the programme is 10 years.
The medium of instruction, assessments, project reports and examinations will be English.
Fee Structure
Calendar 2026
Regulations
Programme Highlights
Instructor led Classroom sessions in ONLINE Mode
Weekend Online Sessions
Research - Industry Experienced Faculty handling courses
Flexibility to exit at multiple levels - BCA level, MCA level and Integrated MTech level
End Semester Examination and Final Project Review in Offline Mode (The offline exam centres will be the Off-Campus centre in Trivandrum or Exam centres in Bangalore, Pune, and Allahabad/ Delhi, subject to the availability of sufficient candidates.)
Minimum 1 week of on-campus visit per semester
A continuous evaluation system assesses the learners over convenient and regular intervals
Can be extended to Ph.D. programme
Testimonials
CONTACT US
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Valavoor P.O., Pala, Kottayam, Kerala, India - 686635
Phone: +91 - 0482-220 2206 | 2212 | 2149 | 2100
Email: imtech@iiitkottayam.ac.in | registrar@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Location Map