URL: https://mtech.iiitkottayam.ac.in

MTECH@IIITK
MTECH
Working Professionals
AI & Data Science
Cyber Security
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam, an Institute of National Importance, provides an excellent opportunity for working professionals to pursue Masters of Technology in the market-demanding specializations.
Calendar
Regulations
e-M.Tech Admissions Open
👉 Click Here
Scroll Down for more details
MTECH @ IIITK
The programme provides extensive opportunities for students to revive their research and development skills. The state-of-the-art and relevant specializations provide strong insights into the subjects. The associated thesis work enables R&D in a topic of their interest by joining research projects of the institute faculty. This exposure will help them considerably in elevating their position in the organization, and prepare them for the most lucrative of careers.
Well-defined Curriculum
Curriculum is designed as per the needs of the partnered industries and international requirements and approved by the Senate. The syllabi and curriculum are revised from time to time as per the need and technological advancement.
Qualified Faculty
Classes are conducted by the IIIT Kottayam faculty who are world-class qualified and are engaged in research and contribute to the Indian/International society along with their wards. Industry experts are also invited for sharing their valuable experiences.
Thesis Work
The thesis (Project Work) in the final two semesters enables students to apply concepts and techniques learned during the programme. Students are encouraged to present journal or conference publications during the programme period.
Scope for Integrated PhD
Students are actively engaged in R&D activities along with IIIT faculty. Later, the programme can be extended to an integrated Ph.D. programme.
Flexibility
Online classes are conducted on all weekends and public holidays. The schedule would be informed to students well in advance to help them in deciding on electives. Course break is possible for those who go for an onsite job.
Course Mode
The programme features combination of live online classes, assignments and case-studies, online continuous assessment, virtual labs and offline end semester assessment conducted over weekends. Live recording, submission, and internal assessment will be under the in-house developed platform. The pedagogy is highly interactive and incorporates expansive teaching methods and approaches.
Course Venue
The classes, virtual lab sessions, and mid-semester exams shall be conducted in online mode. A continuous evaluation system assesses the learners over convenient and regular intervals. End Semester Exam, as well as Final Project Review, shall be conducted in Offline mode. The offline exam centres will be the Off-Campus centre in Trivandrum or Exam centres in Bangalore, Pune, and Allahabad/ Delhi, subject to the availability of sufficient candidates. The time slot in which a course would be taught would be informed to students well in advance to help them in deciding electives.
IIIT-Kottayam's Own Learning Platform (OSOC-P)
Courses Offered
Self-paced programmes of 60 credits each that can be taken over 3 to 5 years. The number of credits earned by the candidates in the MTech programs is equivalent to the number of credits needed to be earned by the students of a full-time M.Tech programme.
Details
A fast-moving field which requires thinking quickly and strategically to ward off data breaches and network takeovers. The program aims to have defensive and offensive techniques with a good balance between theoretical and practical aspects.
Big Data & Machine Learning
The curriculum covers big data analytics with a focus on machine learning. Special emphasis is given to the emerging ML technologies which enable decision-making, modelling, classification and prediction based on business intelligence.
Eligibility
A B.Tech /BE /AMIE degree in any discipline or MCA or MSc / MS degree in CS /IT / Mathematics/ Physics/Statistics with at least 60% aggregate in the degree examination.
The candidate should be currently employed. Only the employment acquired after the award of the qualifying degree will be considered.
CONTACT US
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Valavoor P.O., Pala, Kottayam, Kerala, India - 686635
Phone: +91 - 0482-220 2161 / 2268 / 2140 / 2149 / 2173
Email (Admission): pgadmissions@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Email: pgacademics@iiitkottayam.ac.in | registrar@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Location Map