URL: https://phd.iiitkottayam.ac.in

PhD@IIITK
@IIITK
Computer Science & Engineering
CSE-Cyber Security
Electronics & Communication Engineering
Computational Mathematics
IIIT Kottayam, an Institute of National Importance, awards the degree of Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) in Computer Science & Engineering / CSE-Cyber Security / Electronics & Communication Engineering / Computational Mathematics to a candidate who has successfully completed the stipulated Programme of Research.
Major Areas
Brochure
Advertisement
Flyer
Fee Structure
Schedule
PhD @ IIIT Kottayam
IIIT Kottayam launched its doctoral programme to impart the knowledge, skills, and attitude to do world-class research in the area of computer science and its allied fields. Few PhD Scholars have been awarded scholarships under various schemes from different funding agencies, like DST. Institute may provide teaching assistantships to eligible students as per prevailing norms. Our scholars are now collaborating with international universities to enhance their research works. The faculties of the Engineering departments and Computational Science and Humanities department along with their research scholars, perform cutting-edge research in their respective domains and have resulted in highly acclaimed publications in reputed Journals and Conferences, as well as Patents in their respective domains. Our faculties also take industrial consultancy projects, apart from sponsored research projects and collaborative projects with Industry/Academia within India and abroad.
Major Areas of Research
Artificial Intelligence, Machine Learning, Deep Learning, Explainable Artificial Intelligence (XAI), Agentic AI, Vision Language Models, Edge AI, Optimization in Machine Learning and Deep Learning, Evolutionary Algorithms, etc.
Details
CSE - Cyber Security
Cyber Security, Information Security, Network Security, Data Security, Applied Cryptography, Post-Quantum Cryptography, Hardware Security, Adversarial Machine Learning, Multimedia Forensics, Digital Forensics and Crime Investigation, Mobile Application Forensics, etc.
Internet of Things (IoT), Wireless Sensor Networks, Embedded Systems, Edge Computing / Edge Intelligence, FPGA Design, VLSI Design, Electronic Instrumentation, Smart Nanotechnology, etc.
Mathematical Modelling, Computational Mathematics, Optimization, Fractional Calculus, Dynamical Systems, Nonlinear Partial Differential Equations, Graph Theory, Network Science/Analysis, Graph Algorithms, etc.
Scholars
Regulations
Sponsorship Letter/NOC
Academic Calendar
Admission Categories
SCHOLARSHIP HOLDERS (FULL-TIME)
A candidate in this category works full-time in the Institute for his/her Ph.D. degree. He/she receives assistantship/fellowship from INSPIRE / CSIR / UGC / NBHM / QIP or any other recognized funding agency, but no financial assistance or scholarship from the Institute. Such candidates are required to perform teaching assistantship and other duties assigned by the department from time to time.
SPONSORED (FULL-TIME)
A candidate in this category is sponsored by a recognized R&D organization, academic institution, government organization, or industry, and undertakes research at the Institute on a full-time basis. The candidate must be a regular employee of the sponsoring organization with at least one year of professional experience in the relevant field. The Institute does not provide any assistantship or fellowship to such candidates. An intending sponsored candidate must submit his/her application in the prescribed form, along with a No Objection-cum-Sponsorship Certificate for admission through his/her employer, duly endorsed, to the Institute. A sponsored candidate selected for admission shall be required, at the time of joining the Institute, to produce a certificate in the prescribed form from the employer stating: (i) that he/she has been officially released from duties for the purpose of joining the programme and has been granted leave for the required period; and (ii) that his/her services will be retained with the employer.
SELF-FINANCED (FULL-TIME)
A candidate in this category works full-time towards the Ph.D. programme. The Institute does not provide any financial assistantship or fellowship to such students.
EXTERNAL REGISTRANTS
A candidate working in industries, institutes, or research organizations may register as an External Registrant and carry out research either in their own organization alongside their regular work or at the host institute. A No Objection Certificate issued by the competent authority of the parent organization must be submitted along with the application for admission. The Institute does not provide any assistantship or fellowship to such candidates.
Ph.D. THROUGH SPONSORED PROJECT
A candidate working on a sponsored project at the Institute (IIIT Kottayam) may register for the Ph.D. programme under the project category. The minimum remaining duration of the project should be at least two years from the date of joining the Ph.D. programme. The candidate will carry out research work along with their regular project responsibilities. They must submit recommendations from the Principal Investigator and the Head of the Department (HoD) along with the application. The Institute does not provide any assistantship or fellowship to such candidates for Ph.D. registration.
SELECTION CRITERIA
Selection of the candidate will be based on the performance in the written test and /or interview. Appearing for the test and/or interview does not entitle any candidate to admission to the Ph.D. programme.
CONTACT US
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Valavoor P.O., Pala, Kottayam, Kerala, India - 686635
Phone (Faculty): +91 - 0482-220 2212 / 2161 / 2272 / 2224
Phone (Academic Office): +91 - 0482-220 2140 / 2149
Email:  phdprogramme@iiitkottayam.ac.in | selvic@iiitkottayam.ac.in
For technical queries, please contact itsupport@iiitkottayam.ac.in or call 0482-220 2117