URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!acm

ACM | IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
ACM India ROCS-2024
About ACM
The ACM (Association for Computing Machinery), founded in 1947, is the largest and oldest international scientific and industrial computer society. Through its many Special Interest Groups, the ACM fosters research and communication in a broad range of computing areas. ACM brings together computing educators, researchers, and professionals to inspire dialogue, share resources, and address the field's challenges. As the world’s largest computing society, ACM strengthens the profession's collective voice through strong leadership, promotion of the highest standards, and recognition of technical excellence. ACM supports the professional growth of its members by providing opportunities for life‐long learning, career development, and professional networking.
Its growing membership has led to Councils in Europe, India, and China, fostering networking opportunities that strengthen ties within and across countries and technical communities.  Their actions enhance ACM’s ability to raise awareness of computing’s important technical, educational, and social issues around the world.
About Student Chapter
ACM’s Student chapters worldwide serve as hubs of activity for ACM members and the computing community at large. They provide seminars, lectures, learning forums and networking opportunities with peers and experts across the computing spectrum. Student Chapters provide unique opportunities for networking, mentoring and bonding over common interests. They provide support both within the student community and to local communities outside the institution. ACM’s broad‐based infrastructure supports more than 860 professional and student chapters worldwide. These chapters offer opportunities for members to gain access to critical research and establish personal networking systems.
Office Bearers of IIIT Kottayam ACM Student Chapter
Former Faculty Sponsor : Dr.Divya Sindhu Lekha
Designation
Name
Faculty Sponsor
Dr. Panchami V
Chair
Mr Akash Nair  (2022 batch)
Vice-Chair
Ms Shravasti Praphullachandra Ohol (2022 batch)
Secretary and Treasurer
Ms Sandra Sabu (2022 batch)
Web Master
Mr Ashiq Firoz  (2022 batch)
Events
Event Report
The ACM chapter of IIIT Kottayam hosted its inaugural event of the
year with a special focus on 'Responsible AI,' featuring a talk by
Prof. Ponnurangam Kumaraguru as part of a 2-day workshop on
NLP and Large Language Models. The event was attended by
faculty members, including Dr. Radhakrishnan, registrar, and Dr.
Panchami, Head of Department - Cyber Security, alongside the
ACM core committee.
Prof. Kumaraguru, a renowned figure in computer science and
cybersecurity, shared valuable insights on 'Responsible AI,'
drawing on his extensive experience and research background. His
engaging presentation was well-received by an enthusiastic and
responsive audience, composed of ACM members and students
eager to learn about advancements in AI ethics and technology. He
not only captivated students but also provided valuable
perspectives for faculty members present, fostering a collaborative
learning environment.
The session concluded with appreciation for Prof. Kumaraguru's
expertise and the active participation of both students and faculty,
marking the event as a significant learning opportunity for all
attendees.
Here are some moments captured by the students of IIITK and
Prof. PK himself from the session
Date
Title
Resource Person
Affiliations
24th October 2018
Workshop on "Design Thinking"
Mr.Jim J Seelan
Tata Consultancy Services
08th March 2019
ACM Women in Computing
ACM student chapter
IIIT Kottayam
24th July 2021
CSE Career Guidance and Roadmap
IIIT Kottayam Alumni and 2018 Batch
23rd October 2021
ECE Career Guidance
Dr. Dhanesh G Kurup
Amrita Vishwa Vidhyapeetham
Upcoming Events
9 November 2021
Introduction To Block Chain
Abhilash P
Blockchain In Supply Chain
Murli Nahar
11 November 2021
Fundamentals Of Ethereum
Blockchain In Various Industries
Sonal Gupta
12 November 2021
Ethereum Tools And Frameworks
Blockchain Consortia Networks
Anantharaman Iyer
Cyber Security [Digital Forensics: Practitioners Perspective]
Nabeel Koya A
Cyber Security Group, CDAC
13 November 2021
Cyber Security [Better Foundations For Secure Software Using Trusted Hardware And Verification]
Dr. Shweta Shinde
ETH Zurich
14 November 2021
Cyber Security [Getting To Know Your Enemy And Yourself From Cyber Security Perspective]
Dr. Dittin Andrews
CDAC Thiruvananthapuram
20 November 2021
Cyber Security [Cryptographic accelerators]
Dr. Sakthivel Ramachandran
VIT University, Vellore
Cyber Security [Machine Learning for Cyber Security]
Dr. Rasmi P S
Institute of Science and Technology
Cyber Security [Security Threats and Attacks]
Dr. Kokila Jagadeesh
Institute of Information Technology - Allahabad
Events Jointly With IEEE
19 October 2021
Cloud Computing
Mohan Kumar
Wipro Ltd
26 October 2021
Business Analytics
Webinar Series 2020 - Jointly with IEEE SB
June 23, 2020
Through and Beyond Covid 19: Integrating Social Responsiveness and Technology
July 06, 2020
Application Security & OWASP Top 10
Industry 4.0 for Discrete Manufacturing
New Frontiers in Cloud and Edge Computing for Big Data & Internet-of-Things Applications
July 09, 2020
MULSEMEDIA in 360 VR
July 10, 2020
How to become a self-taught programmer?
July 13, 2020
PYNQ- Python Productivity for Zynq
July 14, 2020
Number Theory and Finite Fields in Modern-day Cryptography
July 17, 2020
Revolutionizing of Real Estate on Blockchain
July 18, 2020
AI- The Key to Scaling Cyber Defense: Systematic Identification, Intelligent Automation, Ability to Action and Use Cases
July 20, 2020
Cryptocurrencies & Blockchain
July 22, 2020
Deep Learning
July 29, 2020
Simulation of Smart Home using Cisco Packet Tracer