URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!mindquest

Mind Quest | IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
MIND QUEST
( TOGETHER FOR MENTAL HEALTH TOGETHER FOR YOU )
Club FIC :
MRS RENJITHA T R
Associate FIC
Mrs. Anjali Girish
Dr. Koppala Guravaiah
Faculty Members
Dr. Sushitha Susan Joseph
Dr. Murugan D
Dr. Priyadharshini S
Student mentors :
SARTHAK GUPTA (2022 BATCH)
Mind Quest is the premier platform for curious minds at IIIT KOTTAYAM. We foster an environment where students can challenge conventional thinking, innovate, and participate in various intellectual pursuits. whether you are interested in puzzles. quizzes, debates, or just need a group of people to talk with, Mind Quest is the place to be
About Us
Mind Quest is a club that promotes mental well being, and is a place to let go of all your stress and worries. Our mission is not just promote mental health in the college but in various disciplines with the help of out reach programs. Not just do we have promote mental well being  but we also host activities for students to relieve themselves from pressures of studies like game nights, fun talks and other creative solutions that we are constantly coming up with.
Our Vision
To create a space for all students and foster a stress free environment
Our Goals
Focusing on the mental wellness of students.
Stigma reduction and breaking barriers to promote help seeking behavior.
Emotional well being practices.
Focuses on reducing stress and anxiety issues among students.
Addressing any kind of harassment and viola5on.
Awareness for using drugs and other substances .
Addressing and reducing Suicidal idea5on.
Develop self awareness.
Create self efficacy :- be informed - educate yourself on mental health issues.
Be proactive – implement protective factors such as yoga, deep breathing, regular physical activity, effective communication.
Learn Productivity hacks – Speed Reading, Time management, Super memory, creative thinking.
Overcome your fears – stage fear, public speaking, conversation with a stranger or a person you always dream to talk to.
Provide support and mentorship for anyone suffering from mental health issues and bring the best out of them .
Make a community of happy minds.
Upcoming Events
Stay tuned for exciting upcoming events like quizzes, debates, and knowledge-based challenges!
Past Events: Here's a look at some of our past successful events: Game on Freshers Challenge (Adavya)
Contact Us
Email: mindquest@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Social Media Links
https://www.instagram.com/mindquest_iiitk_?igsh=MTVidGd5c3N5b24ycQ==
Follow us on social media to stay updated with our events and activities.
MindQuest Club Activities
Game on 2.O
Alice in boderland
Apoorve got latent
Outreach
Freshers  Day