URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!sportsClub

Sports Club | IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Sports Club
Introduction
Sportec encourages students to develop their skills in all kind of sports. The club mainly aims to develop the character of sportsmanship among students. We ensure support ,motivation and facilities students need when it comes to sports. Play well and stay healthy because mental strength alone is not enough for an individual to be perfect. Sports makes you feel excited and brings out the best in you.
Faculty in Charge:
Dr. A. Ananth, PET: Ms Priya Mol K
Associate FIC
Dr. Dhakshayani J
Dr. Susheel Kumar Joshi
Faculty members:
Dr. Deepak Jose
Dr. Anandhu Mohan
Dr. Rosebell Paul
Dr. Renu Mary Daniel
Tagline
“Sports do not build Character, they Reveal it.”
Events
Sports include all forms of competitive physical activities or games which, through casual or organized
participation, aim to use, maintain or improve physical ability and skills while providing enjoyment to
participants, and in some cases, entertainment for spectators.
Sports Club, promote and participate in many sports such as Cricket, Badminton, Football, Table Tennis,
Tennikoit , Volleyball and many other indoor games.
Sports Club's motto is "Winners don’t always win; they just don’t give up."
The institute is furnished with cricket and football grounds. And on the weekends, students have access
to 2 LNCPE indoor badminton courts.
Sports in IIIT Kottayam are well encouraged and the students in the college actively participate in sports
with passion and flair.
Currently, after classes end, each day, students can practice cricket, football and volleyball in the Don
Bosco ground which is near the hostels. Two carrom boards are provided in each hostel. Table tennis
boards are also provided.
Sports Club provides equipment to the students for whatever sport they are interested in.
Coming to our past events, Sports Club has hosted 3 sports meets till now. One in Amal Jyothi College of
Engineering, and two at GIFT, Trivandrum. All the students participated with utmost interest. More
importantly, IIIT Kottayam participated in the Inter IIIT Sports Meet 'Twaran' hosted by IIIT Gwalior. The students participated in cricket, badminton, football, table tennis, athletics, chess, carroms, and swimming.
The students made a name for themselves and brought fame to our college. Our players secured 1 Gold
medal in chess, 1 gold medal in carroms and 1 silver medal in carroms. The football team reached the
semi-final.
College has provided sufficient funds for sports equipment. Students in IIIT Kottayam are well equipped
and encouraged with all the facilities. Sports Club is aiming to get as many Gold medals as possible in the
sports meets which will be conducted in the future. Sports Club ensures the students of IIIT Kottayam all
the support, motivation and facilities they'd ever need when it comes to sports.
Play well and stay healthy, because mental strength alone is not enough for an individual to be perfect.
Sports and games make you feel excited and brings out the best in you.
Mentor
Name
E-mail
Gajjala Keerthi Reddy
gajjala21bcs155@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Achievements in Sports
SL.No.
Achievements
Name of Students
Sport Event
Winners
, Volleyball(Boys)
satyanarayana Murty(2020)Captain
Akhil M Reji (2020),
Malineni lakshmi Narayana(2020),
Y T karthik (2021),
Midde vasu (2021),
Murali (2021),
Logesh(2021),
Ajay Kumar (2021),
Ram swaraj naik(2022),
Vishnu jha(2022),
Balakrishna Saikrishna(2022),
Bhanu sankar (2021)
INTER IIIT SPORTS MEET 2024, IIIT Allahabad
Gold Medal
, Powerlifting above 83 kg.
Aadirat Singh
Bronze Medal
, Powerlifting under 83 kg.
Armaan
Silver Medal
, Shotput(Boys)
Ajay Kumar
, Women Discuss Throw
Laxmi priya Harshitha
Fourth Position
, Cricket
Cricket Team
, Carroms (Boys)
Sai Kishore (Captain), Sai Teja, Saketh
Inter IIIT Sports Meet 2023, IIITDM Kancheepuram.
Winner
, Power Lifting above 83 kg
Aadirath Singh
Third Place
, Power Lifting
Aadirath Singh, Abhishek Anand
Jaisingh, Surya and Venkat Sai of 2016 batch
Inter IIIT Sports-meet
2020, IIIT Jabalpur
, Table Tennis (Boys)
Ankit (2016 Batch), Somesh (2017 Batch) and Antony (2018 Batch)
, Shotput (Boys)
Vishnu. N of 2019 batch
Best player
Jaisingh of 2016 batch
, Athletics 400m Girls
Sangeetha Suresh of 2017 batch
Inter IIIT Sports-meet 2019, IIIT Allahabad
, Carroms Doubles (Girls)
Ramya and Shantha of 2015 batch
Inter IIIT Sports-meet 2018, IIIT Gwalior
, Carroms Singles (Boys)
Prem Nayak of 2015 batch
, Chess (Girls)