URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!/ieee

IEEE | IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
About IEEE
The Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (IEEE) is the world’s largest technical
organization which fosters technological innovation for the benefit of humanity. IEEE inspires the
global community through its professional and educational activities. An IEEE student branch (SB)
was formed in IIIT Kottayam in 2020, with the goal of keeping the students and teachers fostering
the motto of “Technology for Society”. IEEE SB- IIIT Kottayam belongs to IEEE Kerala Section, which
comes under IEEE Asia-Pacific, R10 Region. Our SB enriches students with latest technology and
research, to meet the requirements of current industry standards. In addition, our SB encourages
participation in various extra-curricular events, which give value addition to the student-life.
Former IEEE SB Counselors :
Dr. Shajulin Benedict, Asst. Professor
Profile
Dr. Kala S,Asst. Professor
Dr. Nandini J. Warrier,Asst. Professor
Currently, IEEE SB Counselor is Dr. Debarati Ganguly,Asst. Professor
Contact:
debarati@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Following are the office bearers of IEEE SB
Mr. Deshaboina Yashwanth (Chair)
Ms. Amrutha (Vice Chair)
Mr. Alwin Sebastian (Secretary)
Mr. Christopher (Treasurer)
Mr. AVS Aditya Vardhan (Webmaster)
Mr. Aditya Menon (Content Writer)
Mr. Akash (Graphic Designer)
IEEE SB IIIT Kottayam 1st Year Anniversary Newsletter
--Download Newsletter
Events
Upcoming
IEEE SPICES 2024(on Signal Processing, Informatics, Communication and Energy Systems) – 20th and 21st September,2024:
IEEE International Conference on Signal Processing, Informatics, Communication and Energy Systems 2024 (IEEE SPICES 2024) is a flagship conference of IEEE Kerala Section jointly organized by IIIT Kottayam during 20-22 September 2024. It is a platform for technical exchange amongst researchers from academia, research laboratories, and industries in various emerging fields of Signal Processing, Communication, Computer Science, Energy Systems, Instrumentation & Control Systems, Robotics and Smart Cities and so on. The technical program includes keynote speeches, plenary talks, regular technical sessions, and special sessions.
IEEE ISENSE 2024 International Conference on Smart Electronics and Communication Systems – 6th and 7th December,2024:
The 2024 International Conference on Smart Electronics and Communication Systems (ISENSE 2024) provides a platform for scientists, researchers and faculty from academia, research laboratories, as well as researchers from industry and government to come together to share and learn about state of the art developments in the fields. Smart solutions are the need of the hour for sustainable development. ISENSE 2024 is the first conference being organized by the department of Electronic and Communication Engineering, IIIT Kottayam. ISENSE 2024 is the first conference in the series of Electronics Engineering conferences being organized by the Department of Electronics and Communication Engineering, IIIT Kottayam in association with IEEE Kerala section.
Summer workshop on Hands-on Training in Full-wave Electromagnetic and Circuit Simulators (FEMCS):
The one-week summer workshop aims to provide comprehensive hands-on training, in full wave electromagnetic and circuit simulators. The workshop will be a perfect amalgamation of industry-academia with active participation of leading stalwarts in the state of the art technologies of RF and Microwave circuit and systems. It comprise hands on sessions with electromagnetic and circuit simulators such as Anysys HFSS, CST, LT Spice/MATLAB, clubbed with invited talks and industry sessions focusing on demonstrations of high frequency equipment.
IEEE programs
3 days webinar series titled "Exploring Research Career Paths in Computer Science and Electronics & Communication Engineering (ERCP in CS & EC).    – 27th May, 2024 to 29th May,2024:
Department of Computer Science and Engineering organized a 3-day webinar series from May 27th to 29th, 2024, on the topic "Exploring Research Career Paths in Computer Science and Electronics & Communication Engineering", in association with IEEE Kerala and IEEE SB IIIT Kottayam. The series aimed to provide insights to aspiring researchers on the importance, scope, and career opportunities in Computer Science, as well as Electronics and Communication (CS-EC) Engineering.
5 Day Online FDP on "Recent Trends in VLSI and MEMS:  3 June to 7 June 2024 (CAS Society):
This programme offers a fascinating opportunity to discuss the recent advances in design and implementation of VLSI & MEMS and facilitates cutting edge research in these areas. Advancements in VLSI and MEMS are revolutionizing electronics, particularly through heterogeneous integration in VLSI, merging CMOS, photonics, and MEMS for enhanced functionality, performance, and reduced size/power usage.
One day seminar lecture on "Microwaves to Terahertz: A Paradigm Shift" and IEEE Membership Awareness Drive – 26th February,2024:
Successfully conducted the IEEE membership awareness drive amongst UG, PG students and Research Scholars along with a one-day seminar lecture on "Microwaves to Terahertz: A Paradigm Shift" delivered by Dr.Goutam Chattopadhyay Senior Scientist, Jet Propulsion Lab, NASA and IEEE Microwave Theory & Technology Society President Elect 2025
2-Day Hands-On Workshop on VEGA Processor and Ecosystem – 2nd February,2024 and 3rd February,2024 (CAS Society):
This National Workshop on indigenous RISC-V based VEGA processors will provide an insight to the VEGA series of processors and ecosystem focusing on both theoretical and practical aspects of the processors, development boards,SDK, and applications. Hands-on sessions will be conducted on ARIES boards which are compatible with Arduino.
5-day workshop on Nextgen Computing Paradigms for Big Data Applications - June 5th – June 9th, 2023:
This FDP cum workshop offers an exciting learning experience to discuss recent advances on next generation computing technologies and their applications in Big Data Analytics. The topics in the programme will discuss latest computing paradigms including data generation to storage and analysis.
The 5th International Conference on Innovative Trends in Information Technology (ICITIIT24) – 15th March,2024 and 16th March,2024:
The 5th International Conference on Innovative Trends In Information Technology (ICITIIT'24) is an event covering all aspects of software and hardware designs of intelligent and smart computing systems. The conference is technically co-sponsored by IEEE Kerala Section. ICITIIT'24 allows attendees to benefit from various topics that cover state-of-art Information Technology research and development. ICITIIT'24 encompasses a wide range of topics covering Intelligent systems and applications, Big data processing, Internet of things and Blockchain, Secure information processing, Cloud computing, Edge and Fog Computing, Robotics and automation, Scalable computing, Neuromorphic engineering, Multimedia systems, Electronic Design Automation, Emerging technologies, Healthcare systems, Power and Energy Systems and many more.