URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!internal_complaints_committee

Internal Complaints Committee| IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Internal Complaints Committee
The landmark judgement promulgated by the Hon’able Supreme Court of India on August 13, 1997 in Vishaka and Others Vs. State of Rajasthan and Others1("Vishaka Judgment") widely known as the Vishaka judgement, emphasised on the enforcement of the fundamental rights of the working women. The legally binding Vishaka guidelines commissioned organizations to prohibit, prevent and effectively redress complaints citing incidents that violate the fundamental rights of 'Gender Equality' and the 'Right of Life and Liberty'.  On December 09 2013, the legislation on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace (Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act, 2013 (“POSH Act”) was enacted by the Ministry of Women and Child Development. The POSH Act further elucidated the Vishaka judgement and mandated all workplaces in India to ensure a safe and secure working environment with a policy of zero tolerance of sexual harassment for all women.
In compliance with the statutes of the Supreme Court of India, the Competent Authority of the Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam (IIITK) has constituted the Internal Complaints Committee. The Composition of the Internal Complaint Committee as per the recent reconstitution is as follows:
Sl No.
Name
Phone No
Email
Clause No. & Section of 4 of Act
Dr. Suchithra M S
Presiding Officer
0482-2202169
suchithra@iiitkottayam.ac.in
4(2)(a)
Dr. Panchami V
Member
0482-2202151
panchamam036@iiitkottayam.ac.in
4(2)(b)
Dr. Amit Kumar Roy
0482-2202201
amit@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Dr. Minu A Pillai
0482-2202218
minupillai@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Dr. Susheel Kumar Joshi
0482-2202185
joshi@iiitkottayam.ac.in
Mrs. Aneetta P Joseph
Member Secretary
Adv. Udaya K Sankar
External Member
4(2)(c)
The details regarding the Act are as follows:
Title
Details
Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace(Prevention, Prohibition and Redressal) Act and Rule 2013
Click Here...
Handbook on Sexual Harassment of Women at Workplace
Any complaints regarding sexual harassment of women at workplace can be mailed to:
icc@iiitkottayam.ac.in
. Inquiry regarding the complaints will be conducted by the Internal Complaints Committee as per the provisions of Section 11 of the Act, 2013. Based on the recommendations of the Committee during the pendency of the inquiry actions deemed appropriate shall be taken by the Competent Authority of the Institute.
The confidentiality of the complainant's identity will be maintained and sensitive information will not be disclosed to any individual except for those possessing a specific need to know.
The institute strongly disapproves any demeanour that constitutes sexual discrimination and/or harassment. It is advised that all students and employees report any cases related to sexual harassment to the Committee.
insert_link
OFFICE MEMORANDUM