URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!collaboration

Collaborations | IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Collaborations
International Collaborative Activities
Microsoft Research,
Redmond, USA
IIIT Kottayam is one of the few institutes from India which is working along with Microsoft for the benefit of common man in the domains of Agriculture, climate change and to make the world a better place to live in. The Data Science research team have been awarded an AI For Earth grant from Microsoft to help further our efforts in scaling newer heights in Artificial Intelligence and to come up with innovative solutions for common man.
Technische
Universität München,
TUM,Germany
Rank in Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2019)
The institute has signed an MoU with Technische Universität München Germany.The objective of the MoU is to promote  latest information technology knowledge and best practices from both countries. This has channelized faculty visits to and from TUM,Germany which boost the research and development activities at the institute. We have also established a collaboration with TUM-Germany for undertaking collaborative teaching of selected courses to UG students. That is, every year, our faculty is conducting credit courses at TUM Germany and German Professors are engaging credit courses at our institute.
BMWFW, Austria
The collaborative research project with University of Klagenfurt, where we are involved in designing energy aware compilers for Heterogeneous systems which aims identifying the bottlenecks of existing workflow applications with more emphasis on energy reduction approaches.
Volkswagen Foundation, Germany
IIIT Kottayam is the official Indian Technical partner for an European Consortium project funded by Volkswagen Foundation and partnered with German Research Center for Artificial Intelligence. The Full Grant will fund a 1.5 million EURO research program for 4 years. This International interface will help in the research of social assessment technologies in Artificial Intelligence.
University of New Brunswick (UNB) Canada
The institute has signed an MoU with University of New Brunswick (UNB) Canada. IIIT Kottayam and UNB shall promote collaboration through a broad range of strategies such as Staff exchange, Student exchange programmes at undergraduate level, Study abroad programmes at undergraduate level, postgraduate level and summer schools, Joint programmes at both undergraduate and postgraduate.
IIIT-K Faculty conducted credit courses & research collaborations at Germany, Austria
Faculty from Germany & Austria involoved in teaching at IIIT-K