URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in

Welcome to IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
UG Admission 2026 Updates
The Institute will remain functional on 16/08/2026 (Sunday) to facilitate UG Admissions 2026.
The Orientation Programme (UG 2026) is scheduled to be held on 20/08/2026.
CHORDS 2026, International Conference on Computation and Humanities
International Yoga Day Celebrations
AICTE-QIP VALEDICTORY Function
SEVENTH International Conference on Innovative Trends in Information Technology, ICITIIT 2026
Youth for Democracy Summit 2026
TEDx IIIT Kottayam 2026
Annual Sports Meet Pradhva 4.0
Republic Day 2026
AXCIA – Annual Cyber Exercise
Hands-On Workshop on Prototyping using FPGA
Applied Computer Vision & NLP: A practical Python Workshop
4-day Cyber Security Incident Response Training Program"
5-day STTP and FDP entitled "Contemporary Robotics: Innovations, Trends & Practices"
FIVE DAYS FDP CUM WORKSHOP FUZZYMAT 2026 MASTERING AMBIGUITY:FUZZY LOGIC APPLICATIONS IN AI, ML, AND DATA SCIENCE
Workshop on Graph Neural Network
Data to Intelligence: A Practical Training in AI & Machine Learning
From Sensors to Intelligence:A 5 Day Hands-on Workshop on IoT and Predictive Analytics
Code Kalari
7th Convocation
VIGILANCE AWARENESS WEEK 2025
Blood Donation Camp November 2025
150 Years of Vande Mataram Commemoration
International Workshop on Climate Resilience 2026
TTTC Workshop 2026
UG Orientation 2025
INDEPENDENCE DAY 2025
Anti-Ragging day Observation 2025
MoU Signing Ceremony PM-VIKAS Scheme
4th International Conference on Speech and Language Technologies for Low-resource Languages (SPELLL 2025)
CONGRATULATIONS
MoU  with Well Tech : An initiative to share resources on academia led  industrial labs
MOU with CyStar IIT Madras
MOU with Amala Institute of Medical Sciences
MoU with National Ayurveda Research Institute for Panchakarma,Cheruthuruthi
MoU with IIST Thiruvananthapuram
MoU with Human Resocia/Global IT Talent, Japan for Student Placements and International Internships
MoU with Rashtriya Raksha University, Gandhinagar Gujarat
IIIT Kottayam @ Media
One of the highlight's of cOcOn 2023 is its innovative project of a crime scene within the metaverse, developed by Gyaan Lab(IIIT Kottayam).
Diwali @ IIIT Kottayam
Campus
Hostel
IIIT Kottayam Welcomes You
The Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam (IIIT Kottayam) was established in the year 2015 as one among the IIITs established under the administrative control of the Government of India and later declared as an “Institution of National Importance” by an Act of Parliament enacted in 2017. The initial cost for the infrastructure development was shared in the ratio of 50:35:15 among the Central Government, State Government and the industry partners namely M/s CIAL Cochin, and M/s Rolta Foundation Mumbai.  The institute is located on a picturesque lush green 53-acre campus in Pala, Kottayam, Kerala.
IIIT Kottayam imparts top-notch technological education at the undergraduate, post graduate and doctoral levels and currently occupies the leading position as a highly sought-after destination for students inclined to indulge in the intricacies of Computer Science and allied fields.  The Institute is committed to impart premium technical education in the country and the preeminent IIITK faculty are keenly focussed on facilitating the sculpting of bright minds into professionally balanced individuals, capable enough to take up challenges of nature, of the society and of the marketplace. The institute facilitates knowledge transfer while ensuring the adoption of the latest technological developments and pedagogy practices. Students are exposed to the contemporary developments in various disciplines of engineering by means of the meticulously crafted au-courant curriculum.
By adopting an entrepreneurial approach, utilizing contemporary teaching techniques, bringing major societal issues to the attention of our students, and fostering an environment of active learning, we produce graduates who are not only technically proficient but also socially conscious. Our courses are designed to prepare students to pave their own routes rather than merely following others. Our educational program aids the development of a scientific temperament and focuses on equipping students for a lifetime of learning and knowledge application in practical circumstances.
As part of providing unrivalled holistic education, the institute provides the student cohort with ample opportunities to pursue societal needs by undertaking critical problems and transforming ideas into actions for the betterment of the society. In a quest to cultivate creative and innovation skills, the institute offers platforms for co-creating technological solutions with premier academic and research institutes both within and outside the country. The institute also encourages active participation in various extracurricular activities providing a forum for students to hone their communication and interpersonal skills. Since necessity is the mother of inventions, our students have participated in every corner of need and took the chaos of early years as an opportunity to grow with self-determination and innovation.
Placement Details
* Source of Information:-As informed by IIIT Kottayam students placement committee
Innovative Initiatives of IIITK
Latest News
More
Advertisement for the Post of a Junior Research Fellow in Sponsored Project
List of Applicants Eligible after the e-M.Tech August 2026 Spot Admission Test
Notice regarding registration for PhD Semester July- December 2026 is enclosed
Result - Faculty on Contract Basis - Computer Science & Engineering and Interdisciplinary Areas
List of applicants eligible for the test - e-M.Tech - Spot Admission
Notice regarding registration for iMTech Semester 2, 4 & 6
Notice regarding registration for MWP July - December 2026 Semester
Notice regarding registration for eMTech Semester 2 & 3
EMPANELMENT OF FACULTY ON CONTRACT BASIS COMPUTER SCIENCE & ENGINEERING AND INTERDISCIPLINARY AREAS
Spot Admission Registration for e-M.Tech August 2026 Batch
List of Candidates Selected for the post of Project Research Scientist-I (Non-Medical)
Events
ICITIIT 2025
International Conference on Innovative Trends in Information Technology (ICITIIT25)
Yoga Day 2026
IIIT Kottayam Observes International Yoga Day
Faculty Development Programme 2024(ECE)
Faculty Development Programme 2024(CSY)
Faculty Development Programme 2024(CSE)
Faculty Development Programme 2024(CSH)
Vision
"Generating knowledge for the future" is IIIT Kottayam's motto in the fields of IT and IT-enabled research. In a short period of time, the institute has transformed into a hub for knowledge development, emphasizing ideas that address both local and global concerns. The mission of IIIT Kottayam includes the following essential elements:
Become a top-tier, research-driven organization in a variety of development and research domains.
Converting bright young academics and researchers into Technoprenuers.
Excelling in information technology, conducting cutting-edge research, and providing important resources to the business and societal sectors, all while making major contributions to India and the global community.
IIIT Kottayam is a notable example of an Indian IIIT that is developing quickly. The institute encourages instructors and students to work with businesses to realize their creative ideas. The students get knowledge of cutting-edge technology, practical coding experience, and exposure to the real world of business from a global standpoint.
Mission
To produce graduates who are competent in their profession, creative in solving real-world problems, and exhibit professional ethics with a caring attitude towards the society.
To solve local problems using global technologies and solve global problems using local technologies across disciplines.
To promote the significance of ethics and integrity in technical education further fostering the learning with respect for individual human rights and an unyielding commitment to the principles of equal opportunity, equity, and justice.
To provide academic excellence in Engineering and Technology by imparting quality as well as value-based education, and foster a collaborative environment open to the free exchange of ideas, where research capabilities could be leveraged to address the challenges of the present scenario.
To project the nation to the forefront of information technology research and development.
Meet the Faculty
Dr. Shajulin Benedict
Assistant Professor
Cloud Computing
Supercomputers
Dr. Bakkyaraj T
Lie Group Analysis of Nonlinear Differential Equations
Representation Theory and Invariant Theory
Data Science
Dr. Panchami V
Applied Cryptography
IoT Security
Blockchain Technology
Research Publication
TOEP: Threshold Oriented Energy Prediction Mechanism for MPI-OpenMP Hybrid Applications
Shajulin Bendict
P.Gschwandtner
Thomas Fahringer
Special Issue CFP on IoT Cloud Solutions for Societal Applications at Scalable Computing: Practice and Experience, Impact Factor Journal, 2019.
Shajulin Benedict
M.Gerndt
Computing Principles in Formulating Water Quality Informatics and Indexing Methods: An Ample Review
NR Blessing
S Benedict
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-I
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-II
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-III
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-IV
IIIT Kottayam - Virtual Tour-V