URL: https://www.iiitkottayam.ac.in/#!faculty/renudaniel

Dr. Renu Mary Daniel| IIIT Kottayam
Indian Institute of Information Technology Kottayam
Dr.Renu Mary Daniel
Assistant Professor
Valavoor P.O, Pala
Kottayam - 686635, Kerala, India.
Email: renudaniel
iiitkottayam
ac.in
Hello at: 04822202280
Honours and Achievements :
Received Doctoral Fellowship under Visvesvaraya Ph. D. Scheme for Electronics and Information Technology (Full-time), MeitY, Govt. of India, 2015-2019.
Internship at Center for Artificial Intelligence and Robotics (CAIR), DRDO, Bangalore, 2013.
Received Best Paper award in the track-security in International Conference in Big Data and Cloud Computing, 2017 (ICBDCC’17), proceedings in Springer.
M.Tech. First Rank
B.Tech. Ninth Rank
Education
Ph.D, Computer Science and Engineering, Thesis titled: "Design and Cryptanalysis of Public Key Cryptosystems based on Elliptic and Conic Curves", with Fellowship under Visvesvaraya Ph. D. Scheme for Electronics and Information Technology (Full-time), MeitY, Govt. of India, Karunya University, 2020
M.Tech., Computer Science and Engineering, Karunya University, 2013
B.E., Computer Science and Engineering, Anna University, 2011
Publications
Journals
Daniel, R.M., K. A., F. & M., B. Assessing Financial Systemic Risk Through Shareholder Networks. Computational Economics (2026), Springer.
Daniel, R. M., Thomas, A., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2023). A strengthened eCK secure identity based authenticated key agreement protocol based on the standard CDH assumption. Information and Computation, 294, 105067. Elsevier.
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2021). A forward secure signcryption scheme with ciphertext authentication for e-payment systems using conic curve cryptography. Journal of King Saud University-Computer and Information Sciences, 33(1), 86-98. production and hosting by Elsevier.
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2020). An efficient eCK secure identity based Two Party Authenticated Key Agreement scheme with security against active adversaries. Information and Computation, 104630, Elsevier.
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2019). An Efficient eCK Secure Certificateless Authenticated Key Agreement Scheme with Security Against Public Key Replacement Attacks. Journal of information security and applications, 47, 156-172, Elsevier.
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2017). Analysis of hierarchical identity based encryption schemes and its applicability to computing environments. Journal of information security and applications, 36, 20-31, Elsevier.
Daniel, R. M. & Thomas A. (2022). A Provably Secure Identity Based Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol with Multiple PKG Compatibility for Inter-Vehicular Ad hoc Networks. Journal of Integrated Design and Process Science, IOS Press.
ESCI
Book Chapters
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., Silas, S., & Francis, S. A. J. (2020). An Efficient Provably Secure Identity-Based Authenticated Key Agreement Scheme for Intervehicular Ad Hoc Networks. In The Cognitive Approach in Cloud Computing and Internet of Things Technologies for Surveillance Tracking Systems (pp. 17-36). Academic Press, Elsevier.
Scopus
Conferences
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2018). An Efficient Forward Secure Authenticated Encryption Scheme with Ciphertext Authentication Based on Two Hard Problems. In Advances in Big Data and Cloud Computing (pp. 123-133). Springer.
Daniel, R. M., Rajsingh, E. B., & Silas, S. (2016). Deriving Practical Applicability of Hierarchical Identity Based Encryption in Massively Multiplayer Online Role Playing Games. Procedia Computer Science, 93, 839-846, Elsevier.
Rajesh, N., Poulose, V. T., Umesh, P. L., & Daniel, R. M. (2021, October). Comorbidity Based Risk Prediction System for ARDS in COVID-19 Patients. In 2021 International Conference on Advances in Computing and Communications (ICACC) (pp. 1-5). IEEE.
Elijah, G. J., Saras, A., Daniel, R. M., & Jothish, D. (2026, March). Reptile Meta Learning Based Beaconing and C2 Behaviour Detection in Network. In 2026
International Conference on Innovative Trends in Information Technology (ICITIIT)
(pp. 1-6). IEEE.
Chacko, C. V., Daniel, R. M., Rony, A., Jaxon, A., & Jomon, A. (2026, March). AI Based Medical Care Assistance and Case Sheet Generation Using Basic Disease Prediction with BERT-LSTM Model. In 2026
(pp. 1-8). IEEE.
Shameer, A., Amitha, M. M., Alida, P. S., & Daniel, R. M. (2026, March). Social Engineering Threat Detection on Reddit Using OSINT and Transformer-Based NLP Model. In 2026
Consultancy Work
Resource Person, Annual Cyber Exercise for Investigating Agencies (AXCIA-2026), organized by the Cyber Operations Division, Kerala Police, hosted by IIIT Kottayam; delivered expert sessions on Open-Source Intelligence (OSINT) and Financial Crime Analytics (February 2026).
Topics:
Financial Crime Analytics using
Python
Google Sheets dashboards
for transaction monitoring; OSINT investigations using
Blackbird, Maigret, SpiderFoot, Maltego, Hunter.io, Numverify, PhoneInfoga;
Web Scraping using
Selenium and BeautifulSoup
; Dark Web intelligence using
Tor.
Facilitated the development of the Official Website with payment gateway for Taluk Headquarters Hospital Kothamangalam by Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kottayam, with a revenue of Rs. 1,00,000.
Resource Person for twelve-days Training Programme on Cyber Security and Digital Forensics in collaboration with the
State Special Branch, Kerala Police
from 21st August to 1st November, 2025. Handled sessions on
Symmetric Encryption using AES, VeraCrypt tool, Asymmetric Encryption using RSA, GPG tool and Kleopatra
Resource Person for
Indian Cyber-Crime Coordination Center (I4C) cyber-commando training programme
at the Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kottayam. Organized by the Ministry of Home Affairs (MHA) in the month of September-October, 2024. Topics:
Python Programming, Cryptography
Resource Person, AICTE QIP PG Certification Programme in Cyber Security and Digital Forensics offered by IIIT Kottayam, 2025-26. Topics:
Number Theory and Cryptography, Networking with Packet Tracer Tool
Resource Person for Five Days Online FDP & Workshop on Next-Gen Intelligence: AI, Security, and Geospatial Insights offered by IIIT Kottayam from July 14th to 18th, 2025. Session Topic:
Tracking Malware Activity with Wireshark: From Payload Delivery to Command and Control (C2) Communication using Metasploit
Resource Person for Five Days Online FDP & Workshop on Emerging Trends in Artificial Intelligence, Generative Technologies and Cybersecurity offered by IIIT Kottayam from June 29th to July 3rd, 2026. Session Topic:
Tracking Malware Activity with Wireshark: From Payload Delivery to Command and Control (C2) Communication using Metasploit.
Resource Person, for Five-Days FDP – “OSINT, Financial Crime & Digital Forensics” from 18th to 22nd May, 2026 at IIIT Kottayam. Session topics:
Money Laundering typologies and AML Rules. Dynamic Dashboards for Transaction Monitoring. AML rule-based flagging of suspicious transaction records using Python scripts. User-name, Email and Domain-based OSINT Tools.
Resource Person, AICTE QIP PG Certification Programme in Cyber Security and Digital Forensics offered by IIIT Kottayam, 2026 (February-June). Topics:
Number Theory and Cryptography, Networking with Packet Tracer Tool.
Resource Person, for Two weeks Short Term Training programme – “Digital Defenders: Ethical Hacking & Cyber Forensics” from 9th to 20th June, 2025 at IIIT Kottayam. Session topics:
Network Forensics using Wireshark, IDS/IPS with Suricata
Resource Person for Add-On course in “Cryptography, Blockchain and IoT” organized by the Department of Cyber Security, Indian Institute of Information Technology, Kottayam for the students of VISAT Engineering College, Elanji during August 2024. Sessions on
Cryptography
Invited Talk/Sessions:
Invited talk on the topic:
“Emerging Financial Cyber Frauds: How Organizations and Individuals Become Victims”
organized and hosted by IIIT Kottayam in coordination with Kerala Police Cyber Division & CIO Association Kerala Chapter on 15th May, 2026.
Invited Talk on the topic “Digital, Network and Social Media Forensics using OSINT”, in the FDP on “Internet Crime, Human Safety and Advanced Cyber Security Practice” as part of ISTE-BNY one-week knowledge enhancement Programme 2026, from 6th – 11th July, 2026, organised by TocH institute of Science and Technology.
Invited Speaker for the
LEA Track at c0c0n 2025 – International Cyber Security & Policing Conference
, held from 10th-11th October 2025. Delivered a session titled “Unmasking Criminal Networks: A Graph-Based Forensic Approach Using Call Detail Records and Mobile Tower Data”.
Resource Person for One week FDP on Secure Cloud AI Distributed Systems (SCADS), IIIT Kottayam from 5th May to 9th May 2025. Session Topic:
Demystifying Cryptography: A TLS Handshake Deep Dive
Invited talk on the topic: “
From Clicks to Code: Crafting your Digital Safety Blueprint
” organized by the Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Sree Narayana Gurukulum College of Engineering and Technology, Kadayiruppu on 6th February, 2024.
Programmes Organised:
Coordinator, AICTE QIP PG Certification Programme in Cyber Security and Digital Forensics offered by IIIT Kottayam, 2026
Coordinator, Five-Day FDP and Hands-on Workshop – “OSINT, Financial Crime & Digital Forensics”, offered by IIIT Kottayam, from 18th to 22nd May, 2026.
Coordinator, Five-Day FDP and Hands-on Workshop – “AI in Penetration Testing & Ethical Hacking”, offered by IIIT Kottayam, from 1st to 5th June, 2026.
Co-Coordinator, AICTE QIP PG Certification Programme in Cyber Security and Digital Forensics offered by IIIT Kottayam, 2025.
Coordinator, Two weeks Short Term Training programme – “Digital Defenders: Ethical Hacking & Cyber Forensics” offered by IIIT Kottayam, from 9th to 20th June, 2025.
Certification
EC-Council Certified Computer Hacking and Forensic Investigator.
Professional Activities
Reviewer:
Journal of Information Security and Applications, Elsevier
Computational Economics, Springer
IEEE Access
Scientific Reports, Nature
Electronic Commerce Research, Springer
Frontiers of Computer Science, Springer
Transactions on Emerging Telecommunications Technologies, Wiley
Journal of Integrated Design and Process Science, IOS Press
Research Interests
Social Network Analysis
Financial Crime Detection
Network Forensics
Design of Cryptographic Algorithms
Information Security
Teaching Experience:
Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Rajagiri School of Engineering and Technology, from January 2020 to July 2024.
Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Karunya Institute of Technology and Sciences, from July 2019 to November 2019
Assistant Professor, Department of Computer Science and Engineering, Sree Narayana Guru College of Engineering, from June 2013 to June 2014